# Machine Learning Project 1

## General information 

The repository contains the code for Machine Learning course 2021 (CS-433) project 1 (Higgs Boson challenge: https://www.aicrowd.com/challenges/epfl-machine-learning-higgs) at EPFL. 

### Team members
The project is accomplished by the team `TheVipers` with members:

- Camille Frayssinhes: [@camillefrayssinhes](https://github.com/camillefrayssinhes)
- Assia Ouanaya: [@assiaoua](https://github.com/assiaoua)
- Theau Vannier: [@theauv](https://github.com/theauv)

We obtained a Test Accuracy of 0.811 with Submission ID = 164201.

### Data
The data `train.csv` and `test.csv` can be found in https://github.com/epfml/ML_course/tree/master/projects/project1/data, to run the code please download them and place them in a `data` folder. It is important to note that the initial output labels are {-1/1} but we remap them to {0/1} when loading the data.

### How to run the code
The project has been developed and tested with `python3.8`.
The required library for running the models and training is `numpy1.20.1`.
The library for visualization is `matplotlib3.3.4`.

### How to reproduce the obtained results

The final results used to predict the test datasets of the leaderbord place on AIcrowd are generated by running the function implemented in `run.py` by using the command `python3 run.py` in the terminal when you are located in the `Scripts` folder.
And the final results are saved in: `/data/results.csv`.

***
## Project architecture

All the code files can be found in the folder `Scripts`. 

### Helper functions

`proj1_helpers.py`: loading CSV training and testing data, and creating CSV submission files.

### Processing data 

`preprocessing.py`: preprocessing training and test data for model prediction.


### Training data

`implementations.py`: the implementation of 6 methods to train the model : `least_squares_GD`, `least_squares_SGD`, `least_squares`, `ridge_regression`, `logistic_regression` and `reg_logistic_regression` and the associated functions needed to compute the associated losses.


### Selecting Model

`crossvalidation.py`: using cross-validation to test the accuracy of different models and searching for the best parameters(lambda, degree etc.) to obtain the best test accuracies.

`plot.py`: visualizing the training and test accuracy for different parameters, comparing the accuracy of different methods.


### Predicting test labels

`run.py`: generating the predictions for the test data using the selected best model. It is important to note that we are working with {0/1} output labels when training our methods but we give back {-1/1} labels for the output predictions in order to be compatible with the AIcrowd submission platform. 
In the `run.py`, we call a function`predicting_test_labels` to which we give the best model with its best hyperparameters found (see the table in the report to have the best hyperparameters for each method). If you want to run the `run.py` file, you have to be in the repository `ml-project-1-thevipers` (just above the `Scripts` folder) and to enter the following command in the terminal : `python3 Scripts/run.py`. 

### Notebook

`main.ipynb`: data exploration and preprocessing. Tuning the best parameters for the 6 methods and predicting the accuracy of all the methods through cross validation. Analysis and visualisation of the accuracy with different choices of parameters then comparing the 6 methods.

`main_jet.ipynb`: splitting the data with respect to the `PRI_jet_num` variable. Tuning the best parameters for the 6 methods and predicting the accuracy of all the methods through cross validation. Analysis and visualisation of the accuracy with different choices of parameters then comparing the 6 methods.


### Report

`documents/report.pdf`: a 2-pages report of the project.


